C2D workflow - detailed flow (#1280)
oceanprotocol/docs: developers/compute-to-data/compute-workflow.md

---
title: Compute Workflow
section: developers
description: Understanding the Compute-to-Data (C2D) Workflow
---

🚀  Now that we've introduced the key actors and provided an overview of the process, it's time to delve into the nitty-gritty of the compute workflow. We'll dissect each step, examining the inner workings of Compute-to-Data (C2D). From data selection to secure computations, we'll leave no stone unturned in this exploration. 

For visual clarity, here's an image of the workflow in action! 🖼️✨

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/c2d/c2d_detailed_flow.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Compute detailed flow diagram</p></figcaption></figure>

Below, we'll outline each step in detail 📝

## Starting a C2D Job

> 1. The consumer initiates a compute-to-data job by selecting the desired data asset and algorithm. 

Reviewer: I think worth mentioning the compute environment at this step as well:

```suggestion
1. The consumer initiates a compute-to-data job by selecting the desired data asset - algorithm pair and the preferred compute environment. 
```

> 1. The consumer initiates a compute-to-data job by selecting the desired data asset and algorithm. 

Reviewer 2: 1. consumer gets the list of environments available on the provider which will be selected to start c2d job
2. consumer chooses one environment
3. The consumer initiates a compute....

2. The provider checks the orders on the blockchain.

> 3. If the orders are valid, the provider can commence the compute flow.

Reviewer: maybe worth mentioning the provider fees as well, this may be an option

```suggestion
3. If the orders for dataset, algorithm and compute to data fees are valid, the provider can commence the compute flow.
```

4. The provider informs the consumer of the job number's successful creation.

> 5. With the job ID and confirmation of the orders, the consumer starts the job by calling the operator service.

Reviewer 3: The provider starts the job, not the consumer.

6. The operator service communicates with the operator engine to initiate a new job.

## Creating the K8 Cluster and Allocating Job Volumes
7. As a new job begins, volumes are created on the Kubernetes cluster, a task handled by the operator engine.
8. The cluster creates and allocates volumes for the job using the job volumes
9. The volumes are created and allocated to the pod

> 10. After volume creation and allocation, the operator engine initiates the `run script` on the pod configuration.

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest the following: 10. After the volume creation and allocation, the Operator Engine calls the POD Configuration script.

> 10. After volume creation and allocation, the operator engine initiates the `run script` on the pod configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. After volume creation and allocation, the operator engine starts  "pod-configuration" as a new pod in the cluster
```

## Loading Assets and Algorithms

> 11. The pod configuration requires the data asset and algorithm, prompting a request to the provider for retrieval.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. Pod-configuration, based on required data asset(s) and algorithm, request them from their own providers.
```

> 12. The provider uploads assets to the allocated job volume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> 13. Upon completion of file uploads, the provider notifies the pod configuration that the assets are ready for the job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
13. Upon completion of file downloads, pod-configuration informs operator engine and exists
```

> 14. The pod configuration informs the operator engine that it's ready to start the job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

## Running the Algorithm on Data Asset(s)

> 15. The operator engine launches the algorithm pod on the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
15. The operator engine launches the algorithm pod on the Kubernetes cluster, with volume containing data asset(s) and algorithm mounted
```

16. Kubernetes runs the algorithm pod.

> 17. When the algorithm completes processing the dataset, the operator engine receives confirmation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
17. Operator engines monitors the algorithm, stopping it if it takes too long (according to chosen environment) 
```

> 18. Now that the results are available, the operator engine runs the script on the pod publishing component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
18. Now that the results are available, operator engine starts "pod-publishing"
```

---
title: Compute Workflow
section: developers
description: Understanding the Compute-to-Data (C2D) Workflow
---

🚀  Now that we've introduced the key actors and provided an overview of the process, it's time to delve into the nitty-gritty of the compute workflow. We'll dissect each step, examining the inner workings of Compute-to-Data (C2D). From data selection to secure computations, we'll leave no stone unturned in this exploration. 

For visual clarity, here's an image of the workflow in action! 🖼️✨

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/c2d/c2d_detailed_flow.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Compute detailed flow diagram</p></figcaption></figure>

Below, we'll outline each step in detail 📝

## Starting a C2D Job

> 1. The consumer selects a preferred environment from the provider's list and initiates a compute-to-data job by choosing a data asset-algorithm pair.

Reviewer 4: dataset - algorithm pair (they are both assets)

2. The provider checks the orders on the blockchain.

> 3. If the orders for data asset, algorithm and compute environment fees are valid, the provider can start the compute flow.

Reviewer 4: dataset

> 4. The provider informs the consumer of the job id's successful creation.

Reviewer 4: job's id

5. With the job ID and confirmation of the orders, the provider starts the job by calling the operator service.
6. The operator service adds the new job in its local jobs queue.
7. It's the operator engine's responsibility to periodically check the operator service for the list of pending jobs. If there are available resources for a new job, the operator engine requests the job list from the operator service to decide whether to initiate a new job.
8. The operator service provides the list of jobs, and the operator engine is then prepared to start a new job.

## Creating the K8 Cluster and Allocating Job Volumes
9. As a new job begins, volumes are created on the Kubernetes cluster, a task handled by the operator engine.
10. The cluster creates and allocates volumes for the job using the job volumes.
11. The volumes are created and allocated to the pod.
12. After volume creation and allocation, the operator engine starts "pod-configuration" as a new pod in the cluster.

## Loading Assets and Algorithms

> 13. Pod-configuration requests the necessary data asset(s) and algorithm from their respective providers.

Reviewer 4: data and algorithm

Reviewer 4: valid for future references as well
